All right.
So let's start by building the basic version here.
The first thing we need to do is create a new file.
So I'm going to call mine.
Let me clear this out.
I'm going to make a new file called I'll just do V-1 dot P Why because I know I'm going to have a V-2
and I'll open that up.
OK.
And let's start by just printing a simple print statement that just says rock and let's just do a couple
of those and sublime.
I'm using a shortcut to duplicate command shift D and will changes on to paper and friendly scissors.
So let's just make sure.
Obviously there is no complex logic but let's just make sure things are working.
So that's Python 3.
We wonder why we get our three print statements.
OK so now let's get our user one so we'll call it what color our users are players P1 or player 1 and
then Player 2.
So remember we can't do.
One player has to start with a letter.
So all go player 1 equals and then we'll use input.
So we need to start by just getting input twice.
So we'll just say Player 1
Make your move and I'm just going to pass a string into input rather than doing a separate print statement
and then I'll do the same thing for player to change the variable name to be Player 2.
This will be Player 2.
OK.
So make sure that that works.
Play one plays rock.
Player Two Plays paper and nothing happens.
So this is now the hard part.
This is where we need to add our logic.
So the way that rock paper scissors works I guess I should have started out by talking about this if
you're unfamiliar with how it works which I guess that's kind of kind of insensitive of me to assume
that all cultures were in my courses that in like 200 something countries I don't think that all of
them play rock paper scissors.
So there's these three moves rock will beat Scissors Paper beats rock and scissors beats paper.
And then if there's a tie rock versus rock it's a draw scissors versus scissors and so on.
So with this logic I'm going to start with the most basic kind of longest way of writing this the most
thorough solution not necessarily the best.
So we have Player 1.
So let's say if Player 1 equals rock so we can start with that and play two equals and we can let's
just pick scissors.
So in that case what happens if Player 1 is rock 13 scissors rock beats scissors.
So then we'll just print there one wins.
So if you can see where this is going we're going to have a bunch of these if statements are LFA statements.
So then we can have another Elif and just two if Player 1 equals rock so keep it at Rock and Player
2 this time.
Played paper.
If that's the case we'll print player 2 wins because I need my quotes.
Paper beats rock that we go and we could add the scenario of rock equals rock.
But instead we could have an elf that just says if Player 1 equals equals.
Player 2 will do a print and my colon here print.
It's a tie
so I'll leave that one at the bottom for now.
And you should also just add an else down here that just says maybe like something went wrong because
our game only works if users type in rock papers rock paper scissors if they tape some other character
or number or something.
A sentence in it could break our code.
Well it wouldn't break things it just they wouldn't see any result.
So let's add this and that just says something went wrong.
OK so let's continue with our logic.
So next let's say if player.
So we've we've covered all the bases if Player 1 plays rock rock versus scissors rock versus paper and
rock versus rock.
Now let's do.
Player 1 plays paper and Player 2 plays rock.
Let's go with that.
So in that case what happens.
Well if I play one paper versus Rock Paper beats rock.
So that means that player 1 wins and let's do the next scenario.
Player 1 now is also paper.
But this time player 2 plays scissors at a space here just to keep it consistent it's not going to change
how my code works.
I just want to be consistent in my formatting.
So if that's the case who wins.
Paper versus scissors player 2 wins.
OK.
And why don't we just test our logic at this point.
So we're still missing the scenario where Player 1 plays scissors at all but we'll get back to that.
So let's test it.
See if we have any syntax errors.
OK.
So let's start with rock and then Player 2 will also play rock.
Let's see what happens.
OK good.
It's a tie.
Player one plays rock.
Player Two Plays paper.
Player Two wins.
OK.
So things were looking good.
We just need to finish up with our logic.
So next we'll have if Player 1 plays scissors and let's say player two plays rock.
What happens in that scenario.
OK.
Well Rock beats scissors.
So that means that player 2 wins again.
And finally we have our last scenario which is Player 1 place scissors.
I can never spell scissors and Player 2 is paper.
And in that scenario.
Scissors beats paper.
So we print player 1 wins.
So this should be our complete logic for this is the most verbose longest way of writing this but it
covers all of our bases.
And I guess Actually that's a lie we could have been even more verbose and just written.
If Player 1 plays rock and Player 2 plays rock Rockit to tie type.
Player one play scissors and paper to play scissors.
It's a tie.
But instead we just combined them in single line.
OK let's make sure everything works.
So make some space and recall a line.
All right.
So let's say play one play scissors.
Player Two plays rock.
Who should win.
Player 2 this time.
Scissors versus paper.
Player one wins.
And let's do paper versus rock.
Player 1 wins.
OK.
So things are working.
If you got to this point congratulations this is really all that we need for the base functionality
of the game in the next video.
I'm going to refactor this slightly because this is kind of cumbersome in my opinion.
We can actually break up these conditionals into some nested conditional statements.
They'll make things a little cleaner.
In my opinion it's just a matter of taste.
So I'll show that in the next video and then after that video we'll have the more advanced version where
we add in a random computer player.
OK.